quite an experience to live in fear
isn't it that's what it is to be a slave
released in 1982 Blade Runner is a
benchmark piece of cinema that puts an
arthouse lens on the cyberpunk genre and
for the first time on film gave us an
all-too believably human and overcrowded
future adapted from the book Do Androids
Dream of Electric Sheep by philip k dick
this film was directed by Ridley Scott
and stars Harrison Ford Rutger Hauer
Sean Young and Daryl Hannah as well as
an incredible score by Vangelis
this is Blade Runner crammed
early in a 21st century the Tyrell
corporation advanced robotic evolution
int of a human-like Nexus phase known as
replicants which were used offworld as
slave labor after a bloody mutiny by a
replicant combat team in an offworld
colony they were declared illegal back
on earth where special police squads
called blade runners had orders to kill
any trespassing replicant this was not
called execution it was called
retirement across a hyper industrialized
future la landscape we track into an
office room of a Tyrell corporation
pyramid superstructure - where a test is
being performed for a series of
questions designed to measure a person's
level of empathy and weed out possible
replicants the examiner is caught off
guard however during this voight-kampff
test as for Tyrell employee across from
him is indeed an Android who blows him
through a wall with a high-powered
handgun down in the dense multicultural
street level where he's enjoying some
noodles Rick Deckard is found by a vice
detective called gaff who flies him out
by hover car over the nighttime
skyscrapers to the police HQ his old
chief pulls him back into active duty as
a Blade Runner in order to hunt down for
replicants that have returned to Earth
in a stolen shuttle and have already
attempted an attack on the Tyrell
corporation that made them originally a
group of six which prompted the
voight-kampff tests on four new
employees to catch out any infiltrators
conducted by Deckard's unfortunate
predecessor as well as the simple
heavy-lift Accord Leon the group
includes a trained combat killer model
called Zora a simple pleasure model
called Priss and is led by Roy batty an
advanced Nexus 6 model with increased
training and intelligence gaff makes
origami figures while Deckard is sent
over to the Tyrell corporation himself
in order to ensure that the void camp
test could catch out in advance Nexus 6
model like Roy batty by testing it out
on a model of their own
in the decadent upper levels of a
pyramid he meets dr. Eldon Tyrell and
his assistant and Rachel on whom he
wants to see for tests return a human
negative result before seeing a positive
worth work girl approve indulge me it
takes some time but Deckard discovers
that she is in fact an advanced
prototype replicant but believes she is
human
she's been implanted with the memories
of Tyros nice in order to give her an
emotional framework for a more human
response as a safety measure in order to
stop them from developing their own
off-the-book personalities over an
extended period of time
replicants are hamstrung with the
ultimate failsafe a four-year lifespan
as Liam's registered apartment is being
investigated for clues he and Roy walk
the night streets to visit Hannibal Chu
a genetic scientist responsible for
designing their replicant eyes if only
you could see what I have seen Roy seeks
information from his Creator that can
help extend his 4-year lifespan and once
access to dr. Tyrell he learned of
another gifted designer called jf
Sebastian who might be someone they can
use to get inside the Tyrell corporation
before killing - as he drives around the
city Deckard keeps listening to Leon's
interview with his predecessor and
returns home to discover Rachel has been
waiting for him ever since his visit dr.
Eldon Tyrell has lost interest in Rachel
as a project and won't see her she tries
to prove that she is a real human but
Deckard has read her file and can
recount personal memories for only she
should know he's hard on her but regrets
it once it's clear that she's deeply
upset Deckard tries to offer her a drink
but she leaves instead the replicant
press waits outside of jf Sebastian
Department under the guise of a scared
homeless orphan and he lets her in to
stay overnight and have a hot meal he's
a gifted and odd man who built his own
toy animatronic friends in his spare
time and lives alone in a complete
apartment block so he's happy for a
company Deckard dreams of a unicorn
before enhancing one of her photographs
taken from Leon's apartment to discover
Zora was fair along with the scales from
an artificial snake thanks to a cellular
level serial number he tracks down the
person who made the snake and
but one was recently sold down in
Chinatown for use in an exotic show he
visits downtown and rubs shoulders with
some old contacts but after a drink or
two called Rachel to see if she'd like
to join him
that's not her kind of hangout however
and she hangs up feeling guilty about
her he remains at the bar to discover
Zora is working Vera's a snake dancer
posing backstage as somebody from the
entertainment industry he approaches
aura to look for clues in her dressing
room while she changes but she sees
through the ruse and nearly kills him
before escaping onto the streets
it's a cramped chase fit is more cat and
mouse for a densely packed Chinatown
with an incredible range of people and
cultures all living on top of each other
before Deckard gets a line of sight and
manages to gun her down
on the street Leon watches honors at
least disperse four crowd and a visibly
shaken Deckard stops for a moment to
collect himself with a drink gaff takes
him to meet the chief who tells him that
Rachael is now on the hit list too as
she has recently left the tyrell
corporation-- pyramid without
authorization making her another illegal
replicant on the streets he spots
Rachael out in the crowd but is accosted
by Leon nothing is worse than having an
itch you can never scratch he demands to
know about his own life span before
easily disarming him and beating him of
superior strength he's about to kill Dec
heart but he's shot through the head at
the last moment by Rachael they both
returned to his apartment for a drink
and Rachael is still struggling to
understand herself as being a product of
business development instead of an
actual person trying to reconcile her
implanted memories alongside her own
self-awareness as a rogue replicant
she's now a liability to society and
asks their card if he would hunt her as
a Blade Runner if she tried to flee
north he explains that he owes her one
for Leon but if somebody would be sent
after her she asks after her own files
on her lifespan but decade pretends he
hasn't seen the information you know
that flight contest of yours ever take
that test yourself Deckard and Rachael
gets close before he makes an aggressive
passive-aggressive mixed move on her
until she agrees that she wants to sleep
with him over at Sebastian's proced
dolls herself up much to the concern of
his other toys and quizzes him on his
medulla syndrome that makes him grow old
it's an accelerated rate keeping him
busy until boy turns up the implied
threat of their present starts to dawn
on jf despite his apparent lack of
social experience and struggling with
his new emotions Roy tells pris that
they are the only two left as a genetic
designer Sebastian conceived a Troy is a
high-level replicant and he's coerced by
the two of them into taking them up to
meet dr. Tyrell face to face jf and
Tyrell have a long-standing chess game
and Roy uses Vicis bait when Sebastian
gets into the higher pyramid levels in
the late night
Bishop keen servant checkmate I think as
an intellectual Tyrell is intrigued by
the sudden excellent moves in bed chess
game and invites jf up to the final
levels as he's curious to see what's on
the designers mind
it's his undoing and Tyrell recognizes
immediately what's going to happen
[Music]
Roy has come to query Tyrell on a number
of advanced genetic and cellular
technics that might be used to extend
his replicant lifespan but Tyrell has
already fought off and tried from all
with no success
Roy is sweating freely now and doesn't
appear to have much time left I've done
questionable things with no hope of
reprieve he kills his maker to
Sebastian's horror before killing him to
again processing his emotions as he
leaves following the discovery of their
bodies Deckard goes to visit Sebastian's
apartment block wandering the atrophied
maze of the building before finding
Sebastian's quarters and all of his toys
Chris hides in plain sight is another
one of the dolls before trying to
scissor his head off and going in with
an acrobatic attack for the kill he
manages to shoot her down in a
horrifying scene of agonized spasming
like a haywire machine Deckard then
hides for an ambush shot as Roy laments
the end of his friends with a kiss but
is unable to score a hit on for superior
specimen Roy knows fit he's going to die
and that Deckard is no match for him so
he toys with a Blade Runner breaking his
fingers for his lost comrades before
returning his gun and allows Rick ahead
starts before he comes for the kill
experiencing another moment of genuine
grief over Crist's there is a nature of
an animal hunter about Roy as Deckard
realizes he is completely outmatched and
loses his gun in a bid to escape
Roy's body starter shuts down but he
forces himself on word through the
experience of pain just to last a little
longer Deckard makes it out onto the
ledge still taunted by Roy and climbed
to the roof of a building he tries a
desperate leap to the structure next
door but barely manages to grab onto a
beam as he struggles helplessly Roy
leaps over to join him but at the last
moment decides to save Deckard's life
it's the end game for the replicant and
in the final moments of his life Rory
reconciles with his own mortality
I've seen things you people wouldn't
believe and expresses the loss of the
accumulated experiences that made up his
life all those moments will be lost in
time
like tears
[Music]
it's hard to read into what Deckard is
thinking in this moment but it clearly
has a profound impact on him he's picked
up by gaff who seems to be aware that
Rachael is staying with him and he
returns to his apartment fearing that
she too might be dead he's relieved to
only find her sleeping and despite
replicants being illegal he appears to
run away with Rachael in the end but not
before finding one of gaffs origami
figures outside of his apartment it saw
a unicorn like for one in Deckard's
dreams indicating four gaff has a
literal insight into Deckard's mind
[Music]
thank you very much for watching guys I
hope you've enjoyed having Blade Runner
crammed inside of you here on film cram
I'm trying to offer a full-on recap of a
film instead of just some sort of two
minutes and Optus in a manner that can
hopefully both tell the story but also
invoke some of the feelings and tones of
a full version so I hope this gives you
a better impression of Blade Runner with
an element of nostalgia if you've seen
it before all in the space of the tea
break so get in the comments and leave
me your feedback and of course these
things take ages to put together so I'd
love it if you'd subscribe take care